COMP.CS.110 - Project IV: Path GUI

Program author: Andrea Caruso
Student number: 151211751
UserID: ccanca
Email: andrea.caruso@tuni.fi

Description:
Documentation file.

Game rules:
The rules of Path (Polku) are straight forward. the player is presented with a
4 by 5 grid of slots, the top row of which is of one colour and the bottom row
of another. The aim of the game is to exchange the colours of the top and
bottom rows by executing a set of moves. The moves all have a starting slot and
a destination slot, and in order for the move to be valid, the path between the
two slots must have the following properties:

    1. The starting slot contains a coloured block.
    2. The destination slot must be empty.
    3. The path must not be blocked by other coloured blocks
    4. The path follows only 90 degree moves.

If all the bottom coloured blocks are moved to the top and all the top coloured
blocks are moved to the bottom, the game is won. The theoretical optimal path
can be completed using 31 moves, as such, this number reoccurs in the
implemented game statistics whether for necessity or stylistic choice.

GUI features:
All features were implemented using code. The .ui file was not used.

The GUI has the following features and their respective functionalities.

    - Quit: The quit button can be clicked at any time in order to innediately
            exit the game and close the window.

    - Reset: The reset button can be clicked at any time except right after
             clicking it a first time, that is, the game must be either ongoing
	     or have ended. By clicking the reset button the game is reset.

    - Pause: The toggle pause button can be clicked during an ongoing match and
             it lets the player take a break by pausing the timer. In addition,
             the button greys out the board so the player can't pause to
             reflect on their next move. This button functions as a toggle.

    - High contrast: The toggle high contrast button gives the game palette a
                     high contrast makeover in case the player needs some aid
                     in recognising the colours. The button can be pressed at
                     any time and doesn't affect the game's state or 
                     functionality (except that it resets the player's first
                     click of the move if one was executed). The button
                     functions as a toggle.

In addition to buttons, this class implements some additional game statistic
attributes to reward the player, which are:

    - Points: Each game starts with zero points. For each invalid move, the
              player loses 3 points. For each valid move, the player is
              rewarded 12 points IF the total moves are less than or equal
              to 31; otherwise the player loses 6 points for each valid
              move. Once the player reaches a victory, the time taken is
              subtracted from the total points. After all the calculations,
              if the player has reached the victory in exactly 31 moves, 31
              points are added to the player's point total. IF the player at
              this point has less than zero points, the final score is
              simply zero points.

    - Moves: Each game starts with zero moves. Each valid move adds one move
             to the total moves taken towardsvictory. IF the player wins the
             game in exactly 31 moves, the background changes colour to a
             golden hue until the game is reset. NOTE! Although invalid
             moves reduce points, they are not added to the move total.

    - Time: Each game starts with zero seconds on the clock. The time taken
            to reach a victory is measured from the first click which is
            done on a board tile. The time is measured in seconds. The time
            stops temporarily when the game is paused. The time is visualised
            using a timer widget.

To help with visualising the move, upon the starting point click on the board,
the starting block's colour is dimmed to keep track of what block is the
starting block. After the starting click for a move, another block is selected
as the destination location for the move. Colours change also using the high
contrast toggle button as well as when the player wins with a perfect 31 moves,
in which case the GUI window's background becomes golden until the start of the
next game.

The GUI includes an information board, which gives valuable information about
the state of the game. The info board begins each game by displaying some
simple rules of how to play. As soon as the game starts, the board informs the
player whether the destination is vacant or whether the path is blocked in this
order with two respective error messages. Additionally,the board informs the
player that starting a move on an empty tile is not allowed. Upon victory, the
info board displays the gathered game statistics for the current game round.

The game's runtime is kept using a timer which begins as the first starting
click is executed and ends as the game is won. The timer only stops during a
game if the game is paused. The timer resets with each starting game.
